h1. LeaveNotice jQuery Plugin

h2. Overview

LeaveNotice is a plug in to easily notify your users that they are leaving your website. This was developed with "official" type websites in mind (Government, money-processing, etc). Because of the nature of the information those sites house, it can be important to make sure users know that they are being linked to a site not under "official" jurisdiction.

h3. Features of LeaveNotice

* Easy to install with just a couple steps
* Easy to style using only CSS

h3. Changelog

h4. v. 1.1.3
* Added an option to open links in a new window through the dialog. This behavior was possible before through the @linkString@ option, but I have made it more easily available now through a new option called @newWindow@. *Note:* The experience this creates "is":http://www.nngroup.com/articles/the-top-ten-web-design-mistakes-of-1999/ "not":http://www.nngroup.com/articles/top-10-mistakes-web-design/ "ideal":http://www.currybet.net/cbet_blog/2012/08/never-open-external-links-in-new-windows.php (it breaks the back button), but I've had enough requests that I've added it.

h4. v. 1.1.2
* Fixed issue that was caused by a change made in version 1.6 of jQuery that was causing the link titles to be displayed as 'undefined'.

h4. v. 1.1.1
* The modal is killed on page unload, now, so that users who return to the website via their browser back button will not see the leaveNotice message as they return.

h4. v. 1.1
* There is now the ability to set the timeOut option to 0, and thus keep leaveNotice from automatically forwarding the user. When timeOut is set to 0, the user will have to click the link from the leaveNotice dialog in order to advance to the linked page.
* There is a new option that can now be set that is called linkString. This is just a string that gets added to the outgoing link. The purpose of this property is it allows for adding a class or other property to the outgoing link.
* LeaveNotice now works when jQuery is running in noConflict() mode.

h2. Installation

To install LeaveNotices on your site, there are 2 steps.

1.) Link to jQuery, the plugin javascript file, and the CSS file.

(Note: In order to keep things easy to customize, all formatting is handled with the CSS file. The only "formatting" option that is handled with javascript, is setting the opacity for the "blackout" div. This can be disabled, too, if you prefer using only css.)

Example:

@<script language="javascript" type="text/javascript" src="js/jquery.1.7.1.min.js"></script>@
@<script language="javascript" type="text/javascript" src="js/jquery.leaveNotice.min.js"></script>@
@<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/jquery.leaveNotice.css" />@

2.) Initiate the plugin with jQuery with the DOM is ready.

Example:

@<script language="javascript" type="text/javascript">@
@$(function(){@
@$('a[rel=external]').leaveNotice();@
@});@
@</script>@

When calling the .leaveNotice() method, you can specify no options if you like. In the notice that is shown to the users, the site URL will be used instead of a site title (e.g. "You are leaving http://www.somewhere.com" as opposed to, "You are leaving Joe's Good Website").

While this is okay, I suggest for a minimal installation, specifying at least a site name. This will be a little bit more clear for those using your site.

Here's an example of specifying a site name:

@<script language="javascript" type="text/javascript">@
@$(function(){@
@$('a[rel=external]').leaveNotice({@
@siteName: 'My Cool Site'
@});@
@});@
@</script>@

With the siteName option specified, a user would see, "You are leaving My Cool Site!" instead of seeing the URL.

Full docs including an options reference are available at the "official leavenotice website":http://rewdy.com/tools/leavenotice-jquery-plugin.